# Android Permissions  
The permissions of an Android app are always declared in the `AndroidManifest.xml` file. Android permissions are categorized into two groups: **normal** and **dangerous**.  

- **Normal permissions** are granted automatically without prompting the user. Examples include permissions for internet access.  
- **Dangerous permissions** require explicit user consent. The user is prompted to allow or deny these permissions, such as access to the camera, location, microphone, and similar sensitive features.

```xml
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.INTERNET"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_NETWORK_STATE"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_FINE_LOCATION"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.ACCESS_COARSE_LOCATION"/>
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.WRITE_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"
    android:maxSdkVersion="28"/>
<uses-permission
    android:name="android.permission.READ_EXTERNAL_STORAGE"
    android:maxSdkVersion="32"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.CAMERA"/>
<uses-permission android:name="android.permission.VIBRATE"/>
```

An app can declare the `BIND_DEVICE_ADMIN` privilege, which requires the user to "activate" it through a special installation dialog. Once activated, the app gains administrative control over the device, allowing it to perform actions such as setting the device passcode, wiping the device, and locking the device.  

Similarly, the `BIND_ACCESSIBILITY_SERVICE` privilege enables an app to function as an accessibility service. Accessibility services are designed to assist users with disabilities in interacting with their devices. Apps with this privilege can monitor and interact with the user interface to provide features such as screen reading, gesture navigation, or automated actions for accessibility. This privilege requires explicit activation by the user through the Accessibility Settings menu. Due to its ability to monitor and interact with the UI, misuse of this privilege can pose privacy risks, such as logging sensitive information.
